README.md, before:

## Synopsis

kplot is an open source Cairo plotting library.
This is the README file for display with
[GitHub](https://www.github.com), which hosts a read-only source
repository of the project. 
To keep up to date with the current stable release of kplot, visit the
[kplot website](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot).

## Code Example

Interfacing with kplot is fairly easy.
One creates a data source and a plot, fills the data source with points,
connects the source to the plot, the plots.
The data source can have its values changed, the plot can be re-plotted,
etc.

![log-scale](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot/example0.png)

The above graph is created by the following.
Note that there is little error-checking!

``` c
#include <cairo.h>
#include <math.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <kplot.h>
 
int
main(void)
{
	struct kpair	 points1[50], points2[50];
	struct kdata	*d1, *d2;
	struct kplot	*p;
	cairo_surface_t	*surf;
	size_t		 i;
	cairo_t		*cr;
 
	for (i = 0; i < 50; i++) {
		points1[i].x = points2[i].x = (i + 1) / 50.0;
		points1[i].y = log((i + 1) / 50.0);
		points2[i].y = -log((i + 1) / 50.0) + points1[0].y;
	}
	d1 = kdata_array_alloc(points1, 50);
	d2 = kdata_array_alloc(points2, 50);
	p = kplot_alloc(NULL);
	kplot_attach_data(p, d1, KPLOT_POINTS, NULL);
	kplot_attach_data(p, d2, KPLOT_LINES, NULL);
	kdata_destroy(d1);
	kdata_destroy(d2);
	surf = cairo_image_surface_create
		(CAIRO_FORMAT_ARGB32, 600, 400);
	cr = cairo_create(surf);
	cairo_surface_destroy(surf);
	kplot_draw(p, 600.0, 400.0, cr);
	cairo_surface_write_to_png
		(cairo_get_target(cr), "example0.png");
	cairo_destroy(cr);
	kplot_free(p);
	return(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
```

## Installation

kplot works out-of-the-box with modern UNIX systems with Cairo
installations.
Simply download the latest version's [source
archive](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot/snapshots/kplot.tgz) (or download
the project from GitHub), compile with `make`, then `sudo make install` or
`doas make install`, whichever.

## API Reference

See the [kplot(3) manpage](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot/kplot.3.html) for
complete library documentation.

## License

All sources use the ISC (like OpenBSD) license.
See the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

Commit message:

lazy mode: minor change or simple comment

README.md, after:

## Synopsis

kplot is an open source Cairo plotting library.
This is the README file for display with
[GitHub](https://www.github.com), which hosts a read-only source
repository of the project. 
To keep up to date with the current stable release of kplot, visit the
[kplot website](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot).

## Fork rationale
Primarily concerned about the serif fonts which I'm not a fan of.
Cairo isn't great on fonts, but I think it can manage nonserif.
plotctx() doesn't seem to be documented, but surely there's a way to change
font size. 
Check for how this would affect buffer sizes.

## Code Example

Interfacing with kplot is fairly easy.
One creates a data source and a plot, fills the data source with points,
connects the source to the plot, the plots.
The data source can have its values changed, the plot can be re-plotted,
etc.

![log-scale](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot/example0.png)

The above graph is created by the following.
Note that there is little error-checking!

``` c
#include <cairo.h>
#include <math.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <kplot.h>
 
int
main(void)
{
	struct kpair	 points1[50], points2[50];
	struct kdata	*d1, *d2;
	struct kplot	*p;
	cairo_surface_t	*surf;
	size_t		 i;
	cairo_t		*cr;
 
	for (i = 0; i < 50; i++) {
		points1[i].x = points2[i].x = (i + 1) / 50.0;
		points1[i].y = log((i + 1) / 50.0);
		points2[i].y = -log((i + 1) / 50.0) + points1[0].y;
	}
	d1 = kdata_array_alloc(points1, 50);
	d2 = kdata_array_alloc(points2, 50);
	p = kplot_alloc(NULL);
	kplot_attach_data(p, d1, KPLOT_POINTS, NULL);
	kplot_attach_data(p, d2, KPLOT_LINES, NULL);
	kdata_destroy(d1);
	kdata_destroy(d2);
	surf = cairo_image_surface_create
		(CAIRO_FORMAT_ARGB32, 600, 400);
	cr = cairo_create(surf);
	cairo_surface_destroy(surf);
	kplot_draw(p, 600.0, 400.0, cr);
	cairo_surface_write_to_png
		(cairo_get_target(cr), "example0.png");
	cairo_destroy(cr);
	kplot_free(p);
	return(EXIT_SUCCESS);
}
```

## Installation

kplot works out-of-the-box with modern UNIX systems with Cairo
installations.
Simply download the latest version's [source
archive](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot/snapshots/kplot.tgz) (or download
the project from GitHub), compile with `make`, then `sudo make install` or
`doas make install`, whichever.

## API Reference

See the [kplot(3) manpage](https://kristaps.bsd.lv/kplot/kplot.3.html) for
complete library documentation.

## License

All sources use the ISC (like OpenBSD) license.
See the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.
